Welcome back to our study of Proverbs.
And again, we're in chapter seven, but we're closing in on being finished.
We're going to start in verse 22 and read all the way to 27.
Right.
Suddenly he follows her as an ox goes to the slaughter or as one in the fetters, in fetters to the discipline of a fool.
until an arrow pierces through his liver, as a bird hastens to the snare, so he does not know that it will cost him his life.
Now therefore my sons listen to me and pay attention to the words of my mouth.
Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways.
Do not stray into her paths.
For many are the victims she has cast down, and numerous are all her slain.
Her house,
is the way of shield descending to the chambers of death.
Let's go to the Lord in prayer.
Father, we come before you as always and only in the name of your son.
We boast of no righteousness of our own.
We have none.
Our boast is in Jesus Christ, His perfect life, His death, His resurrection and power, His being seated once again at your right hand.
Father, we praise You, we worship You, and we realize that we are Yours because of You.
We remain
yours because of you, that you are our salvation from Alpha to Omega.
Lord, I pray that you would use this time to truly instill in these young people the fear of the Lord and the deadly nature of sin.
in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So when we look in verse 22, we see that suddenly He follows her.
Let's just review.
You'll follow somebody, yourself, the world, or God through following His Word.
You're going to follow someone.
As the preacher says, you're going to be a slave to someone, to yourself, to some other man or woman,
or society, or you're going to be a slave to God.
There's no way you're getting out of this without following someone.
And so you must decide whom you're going to follow.
And suddenly here is very important because it indicates that even though his life has been described in many verses, or his wanderings in many verses, his sudden destruction is just described into
and that you could live a wholesome life, but with one bad decision to destroy that life entirely.
He follows her and it's deadly.
As an ox goes to the slaughter, ox go to slaughter because they don't know they're going to slaughter a fool in fetters.
Here's what you need to realize.
He's in those fetters.
In this case, not necessarily because he's a criminal, he's committed some act against the law of man.
He's in the fetters because he's a fool, because he has refused to either learn from God or listen to what he has learned from God.
He's also like a bird hastening to a snare, verse 23, which doesn't say much for the sense that he has.
And just let me say this again, young person, you are not born with wisdom.
You are not born with great sins.
You learn these things as you mature, as you're taught the word of God.
It is also the responsibility of the wise, the older and the wiser who have studied God's word to communicate God's word to the younger and the more foolish.
Okay.
Now, so he's like an ox to the slaughter.
He's like a fool and fetters going to judgment.
He's like a bird that's about to be captured in a snare.
That's where he's walking and he doesn't know it.
He doesn't know he's in danger yet.
And then look at verse 23, until an arrow pierces through his liver.
And I've, I've written here, he did not realize
that what he thought would bring him joy would actually cost in his life.
Again, remember, it's like putting, if cows could read, putting a huge sign out in front of a slaughterhouse, you know, for a good time, inquire within.
And they think, Oh, I want a good time until they go in.
And when they go in and the gate is shut behind them, then the slaughter begins.
Now it says it'll cost him his life.
So we're talking about this young man.
How will it cost him his life?
I want, I want you to see, uh, first of all, in 634 and 35, let's just look for a moment at that.
It says,
For jealousy enrages a man and he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
He will not accept any ransom, nor will he be satisfied, though you give him many gifts."
This is talking about a man whose wife has committed adultery and his anger against the man with whom she committed adultery.
That he will not spare him.
He will take vengeance.
He will kill him.
And there's nothing that the man can do to appease his anger.
And what we learn from this is that this young man, he's doing that very thing.
He's committing adultery.
And so his life will be destroyed by the violence of another man.
Now we can take that generally and just say sin kills, sin kills,
And there are some sins that you can commit for which there's no reparation.
There's no way to turn back the clock.
There's no way to fix it.
I've talked to so many people in prison, so many people on drugs, things like that.
And they said, only if I could go back, I wouldn't do that again.
I would not take that drug again.
I would not.
get drunk and kill someone in a car.
I would not murder.
I would not.
If only I could go back, but you can not go back.
So one way in which this young man's life could be ruined is that it's just destroyed.
But there's another.
Look in 633.
He talks about the adult where and it says wounds and disgrace he will find and his reproach
will not be blotted out.
He will never, never regain the respect of others.
His reproach will not be blotted out.
Now, we need to forgive, but there is a reality here.
You can commit certain sins and that shame of that sin, at least in society, will be on
you forever.
And it can, certain sins restrict or make it impossible that you ever do certain things in the ministry.
Yes, you can commit certain sins so that you're never allowed into the ministry or you're not allowed back into the ministry.
And so how does sin ruin us?
Well, it can kill us.
It can physically kill us, but it can also destroy
reputation and sometime that reputation can be regained and sometimes it can never be regained again.
Now I want to read something that I wrote down here and I remember this we we had a cattle ranch and I mean we had a lot of cattle and sometimes we would take them to the slaughterhouse and I wrote here when we took cattle to the slaughterhouse and
They seemed unaware of their fate until we unloaded them at the slaughterhouse.
I can remember this.
We would load them.
We had certain loading pens and things like that.
And we'd push them with the horses into those loading pens, push them into the chute and then up the chute into the trucks or into the trailers.
And although they didn't like it, there wasn't this look in their eyes of almost being hysterical.
of being terrified.
They were just bothered.
They didn't want to be there.
But when you drew close to the slaughterhouse, when you got there and there were animals being killed, there was almost a wildness that would be in their eyes because they would smell the blood.
It seemed and and they just changed.
They could get dangerous.
They could run through.
offense, they could leap over a wall.
They knew there was danger.
And that's what's so sad about sin.
At first, you kind of just, everything's good.
There's nothing to be terrified of and nothing to be afraid of until it clamps down, until the consequences come.
Now, another thing it says in verse 23, until an arrow pierces his liver.
Now, to some of you, that might not mean a whole lot, but to someone who's been hunting since he was a little boy, it means quite a bit.
When you're hunting with a bow and arrow, and you're hunting a deer, or even with a gun, when you take the shot, and then, you know, you wait maybe 30 minutes because you almost spooked animal,
if it's wounded you wait 30 minutes and then you start looking for a blood trail and when you find that blood trail and it's extraordinarily dark dark dark dark that blood it's not red it's just really dark you know pretty much that you've hit the liver now you have hit that liver you know it's going to cause severe bleeding
And you know that animal's going to die.
I mean, you get, you pierce that liver, you send an arrow, a broad head through that liver.
Now you may have to track for a while, but that animal is going to die.
They're not going to recover.
But here's something else that you need to understand.
When you hit that liver, sometimes it takes a long time for the animal to die.
And so what he's talking about here is not only a death,
but a slow and agonizing death.
And that's what he's saying here.
He says, until an arrow pierces his liver, sin is deadly.
But there's a difference between sin and a broad head.
You get shot with a broad head, you're probably going to die, but you're going to die physically and that death may be temporal.
if you're Christian, but sin kills eternally.
There are people as much as unpleasant as this truth is.
You need to understand.
There are people in hell who will remain in hell forever, not because of a broad head, not because of a bullet or a bomb, but because of sin, because of sin.
You know, sometimes when I study something like this, if I could just reach through the camera and grab you by both of your ears and pull you up close to me and say, are you listening to me?
You know, I used to have a friend, a big old dude.
and he would always say things.
It ain't no baby's game.
And it's not.
Like I said before, a few lessons back.
This is a matter of life and of death, but it's even worse than that.
It's even more severe than that.
It's a matter of heaven and hell.
What we're talking about here is eternity.
What we're talking about here
is eternity.
And there are certain things that you should fear.
Now, when we talk about fearing God, that's important.
But what that means is a deep and abiding reference because of who he is.
And not only that, because of what he can do,
to you even should fear him.
He is good, but you should fear him.
But with sin, it's something quite different.
With God, he's consistent.
He's faithful.
He's good.
And he's always going to be that way.
Sin is fickle and deadly.
And all it wants to do is ruin you, is destroy you.
And just out there, I want you to think about, when you walk out there in that world, that's not, you don't just have to deal with your own flesh that fights against God.
But you have to deal with almost an entire world that is trying to influence you to leave God.
And then beyond even that, there is one called the devil who is like a roaring lion
Seeking whom he may devour, devour, devour.
I remember one time we had these feral dogs that were on getting our cattle.
And I can remember one day my dad was driving in the field.
I was little boy and we saw one of our calves being drug away.
And my dad, he went right for the dog with the truck.
And what was astounding is how fierce those dogs were, how they were trying to rip that calf apart.
And even they didn't fear the truck.
They didn't fear anything.
They were vicious and vile and deadly.
That is sin and you need to understand it.
So when someone's tempting you with something that seems to be harmless, it's not.
You need to see it for what it is.
You need to unmask it.
It's evil.
It's dangerous.
It's deadly and it can ruin you in this life and ruin you in the next.
You say, Brother Paul, why are you harping on this?
Because it's true.
I've had to travel a big part of the world and some pretty ugly places.
Every
thing that's wrong with this world.
Everything, every injustice, every hurt, every crime, every tear, it all can be traced back to one thing, sin.
Sin is like a wild animal, a rabid, hungry, wild animal, right outside your tent.
Not outside your stone fortress, right outside your tent.
And its desire is to devour you.
And that is not in any way an exaggeration.
As a matter of fact, it doesn't even come close to reality.
And so I'm speaking this way to you, young people, because you have to understand.
If you've ever seen a cattle truck pull up to a slaughterhouse and see those cattle, those cows in their change,
You ever track blood of a deer that's been shot through the liver?
Well, sinners can do far more damage to you.
So please, please, when we study the book of Proverbs, I'm not here because I just like teaching children.
I'm here because this is a matter, a severe matter, a serious matter.
and you need to pay attention.
We're going to see that in the next verses.
Look at verse 24 that we'll study in the next lesson.
Now therefore my sons, listen to me and pay attention to the words of my mouth.
Why?
It's life or death.
All right, let's pray.
Father, thank you for your word.
Please Lord, through your spirit,
that those who hear might not just be influenced for good, but renewed and transformed for a life of good.
To pray, O God, that if there's anyone listening who does not know Christ, that they would run to Him, as to the only Savior, the only hope, the only light.
In Jesus' name, amen.
God Bless.